do you think that earthworms ever want
to see the sky sometimes sometimes they
do sometimes they climb up on the grass
sometimes they wiggle up to the top of a
mud puddle do you think they want to see
the Sun the moon and the clouds as we do
I don't know do you think the birds
looking down ever want to see the world
underground as earthworms do they see
the same sky every day perhaps sometimes
they imagined there was another world
below where the earthworms fly - sitting
on the streetlights looking down they
imagine the earthworm sitting on their
own little landfill looking up from a
world turned upside down when birds fly
over the lake do you think they want to
see the world below the water as fishes
do do they imagine there's another Sun
and another moon down there under the
water for all the fishes to see in the
sky they see the Sun the moon and the
clouds so they imagine the fish of their
own world with their own Sun at the
bottom of the lake I suppose when the
fish come up to the surface
what would they expect to see some
seaweed or an octopus floating by
another ocean upside down above them in
the sky yes I suppose so earthworms want
to see the sky the birds want to see
underground and the fish want to see
another ocean in the clouds what about
the pigs and the cows what do you mean I
think cows want to see the sky but they
live their whole lives inside millions
of cows live in factories and never see
the sky
I think pigs want to see the sky but
millions of them in the factories live
their whole lives inside waiting to die
when they look up they see only a metal
roof and when they look down they see
only a concrete floor perhaps they
imagined that the world outside has only
a metal sky
and the forests and fields are made of
cement and steel even earthworms want to
see the sky above us yen this video is
gonna serve two purposes I'm gonna read
you out the script of the children's
book that I wrote I wrote it in Chinese
and I translated the Chinese into
English it's a book that introduces the
fundamental concept of veganism to
children and because it's in both
Chinese in English in theory it could
reach a fairly large audience in theory
and if you watch this channel you know
I've been talking to illustrators about
making this a real Illustrated
children's book hopefully in the next
few months that really happens and
hopefully I can do some fundraising
through my patreon channel to support it
maybe just you know selling copies of
the book in advance or something when we
get to that stage I'm not sure I'd also
like to have someone come here on
YouTube and read out the Chinese text in
a better accent that I have in Chinese
but before I read out the script of the
book I'm just gonna answer a question
from a viewer a viewer named Emmy Rodian
asking hi I have a question I'm an early
childhood educator so I presume she
either works in a primary school or
daycare centers about that how can you
talk about veganism with young children
she asks how would you do it I think
would be a good video topic I've been
vegan for ten years but I'm still unsure
about this much love from a French girl
from Montreal Quebec okay thanks for the
question Emmie now one part of the
answer is already implicit in the fact
that I've just written this children's
book and I'm not talking to illustrators
about making an illustrated children's
book I do think that the arts can bridge
these issues in a very broad fundamental
basic way and many people have pointed
out that even some Disney movies some
mainstream movies like a Bambi they do
communicate the point that animals are
alive and don't want to die
etc etc I mean you know on that very
simple level some of those ideas can be
communicated to children but you know
there's another sense
in which I think we need to recognize
that veganism is not an issue for
children whenever you're talking about a
child that is too young to watch video
from a slaughterhouse which you know
believe me I don't think you should be
showing young children those those
images then obviously there's a sense in
which they can never see or deal with
the reality of what the meat and dairy
industry is it's too disturbing now in
some ways that's a very difficult
admission for vegan to make but you know
there are some questions whether it's
about sex or violence or war or politics
where we just have to acknowledge this
is an issue for grownups this is
something tremendously important but
this is something grown-ups talk about
and grownups decide about and grown-ups
do I was once in an airport in Thailand
and there was a woman there a white
woman I assumed she was American with
her son and she was so exhausted she
wasn't saying anything your whole face
you could just see she'd had it and her
son who was quite well rested I assumed
he slept in the airplane and she did
something her son was very loudly
lecturing everyone in the airport about
how the United States should start more
Wars and spend more money on its
military and bomb more countries oddly
he actually believed us for economic
reasons he wanted to massively expand
the role of US military I don't know the
kid was I he could have been eight years
old I don't know but he was a kid I mean
wasn't the teenager or something and the
mother I remember she looked at me a
couple of times to sort of check whether
or not I was being so offended that she
had to shut her kid up or something
because it was it was offensive well the
kid was saying you know I I was just
sitting there for heating the newspaper
but I was somewhat amused to hear this
kids view of American politics I didn't
say a word I didn't say a word the
mother I didn't say a word the kid you
know just a funny thing that happened
the airport I mean the truth is ideally
what someone should have said to the kid
isn't that he's wrong isn't that he's
being offensive really what this kid
needs to know is that he's talking about
an issue that's for grown-ups
is that he's talking about something
that is so
was serious that only adults should
address it or deal with it this is not
something children should be voicing
their opinions on doesn't mean it's
something your kids should never know
about I mean you know I don't think your
kids should grow up ignorant about the
fact that the United States is dropping
bombs in other countries I think on a
broad level they need to grow up with
that political awareness same thing with
human sexuality kids need to grow up
with an awareness of what sexuality is
and how the whole world around them is
organized by it in some ways however you
want to put it and yet there's a sense
in which it's just not something for
kids to talk about not something for
them to have opinions about themselves
and where you need to be really careful
and respect the fact that they are gonna
grow up with some level of you know
ignorance of blissful ignorance and in
their childhood about the reality of
what goes on in a slaughterhouse about
the reality of what human sexuality is
and how it you know shapes the whole
world around us and about the reality of
warfare and what warfare is so I you
know I do think it's not too much to try
to explain to a child look if you're
talking about the deaths of millions of
human beings the violent deaths of large
numbers of people that is a topic for
grown-ups and you know at your age now
you've got to leave that aside you can't
come out and say this you can't when
you're older because for one thing I
can't show you that videotape or that
photograph of showing you what
battlefield carnage really looks like I
can't show you people who've been killed
by predator drones what that really is
what that really means whatever go back
in history you're not going to show a
child real images of what happened in
World War 1 or in the Holocaust in World
War 2 or of our current complex mean
today we have you know high-tech digital
video of most of these wars and the
carnage related to them and so on and
you know there can be little details
also that people find moving that aren't
necessarily gory many people relate that
you know with the Holocaust it's
something like seeing a pile of shoe
the shoes of the people that were killed
or you know children's shoes that are
not there's no blood in the more
anything it's just reflects indirectly
those deaths you know I remember with
World War one there was an artifact in a
museum which was a really nasty dagger
and just indirectly that dagger
reflected the brutal reality of trench
warfare you know we may think of warfare
in terms of bombs being dropped in terms
of lions on a map in terms of strategic
decision-making in terms of the sort of
high level of politics and long term
outcomes but there's another reality
there's another reality that's harder
for us to think about that's more
uncomfortable for all of us which is the
reality of people literally stabbing
each other a face-to-face struggles in
the mud to some extent that's true of
every war but it's also different from
one more war to the next and it was very
true of World War one that a lot of
those you know political struggles
ultimately played out on that level so
no it's it's not appropriate for an
adult to impose on a child any of those
expectations of them knowing or making
decisions about matters of such violence
matters that are so disturbing whether
it's violence towards animals or balance
towards people and you know it does not
mean that ignorant is bliss for children
but it means that we can only deal with
these things in a very broad and
abstract sense and we basically have to
inform children all the time this is an
issue so serious that really it's only
for grown-ups
it's not an issue for you to make up
your mind about you just need to be
aware that in the world of adults this
is something in the case of warfare this
is something where large numbers of
people get killed and in the case of
something like veganism where large
numbers of animals get killed and it's
something you can't really understand
yet now keeping it a hundred percent
real I think there's a sense in which
children also cannot understand ecology
we
for ten they do because that's much less
disturbing we take children to museums
and show them picture books and talk
about nature and forests and we talk
about principles of recycling I think
actually adults for the most part we are
kidding ourselves
the reality of what ecology means and
what it entails and you know ecology in
relation to fegan ism I think actually
that is something that again you have to
be an adult you have to be at least 11
years old to really understand what
ecology means and what entails so we can
get to similar problems there although
it's not for the reason of it being a
dark and disturbing of it involving gory
images that children can't look at can't
consider can't behold and you know I'm
aware there are vegans who disagree with
me there are vegans who think that
children should face up these terrible
truths at an early age and know them and
feel them and carry carry these truths
with them I don't know if you've got
your own YouTube channel and you're a
vegan parent or a vegan with a lot of
experience with kids it'd be interesting
to hear some other perspectives know
that there's so much nonsense on vegan
YouTube sure it would be wonderful to
hear someone speak from you know someone
who really disagrees about this talk
about their own experience in teaching
veganism to children maybe there are
some of you out there who really
strongly believe that it is appropriate
to show them images of how a
slaughterhouse works or what have you
but I don't so here is the manuscript of
the book I wrote for children that
definitely does not have any gory images
in it
you'll see it just presents the
fundamental concept and I'd note again
this was translated from Chinese into
English so the English is maybe a little
bit awkward I might make a few changes
to make the English flow make the
English sound a little bit more natural
before this goes to final press do you
think that earthworms ever want to see
the sky sometimes sometimes they do
sometimes they climb up on the grass
sometimes they wiggle up to the top of a
mud puddle do you think they want to see
the Sun the moon and the clouds as
do I don't know do you think the birds
looking down ever want to see the world
underground as earthworms do they see
the same sky every day perhaps sometimes
they imagined there was another world
below where the earthworms fly to
sitting on the streetlights looking down
they imagine the earthworm sitting on
their own little lamp pole looking up
from a world turned upside down when
birds fly over the lake do you think
they want to see the world below the
water as fishes do do they imagine
there's another Sun another moon down
there under the water for all the fishes
to see in the sky they see the Sun the
moon and the clouds so they imagine the
fish of their own world with their own
Sun at the bottom of the lake I suppose
when the fish come up to the surface
what would they expect to see some
seaweed or an octopus floating by
another ocean upside down above them in
the sky yes I suppose so earthworms want
to see the sky the birds want to see
underground and the fish want to see
another ocean in the clouds what about
the pigs and the cows what do you mean I
think cows want to see the sky but they
live their whole lives inside millions
of cows live in factories and never see
the sky
I think pigs want to see the sky but
millions of them in the factories live
their whole lives inside waiting to die
when they look up they see only a metal
roof and when they look down they see
only a concrete floor perhaps they
imagined that the world outside has only
a middle sky and the forests and fields
are made of cement and steel even
earthworms want to see the sky
and that is the title of the book even
earthworms want to see the sky ah ba Lu
Ciel